# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of the Project

* Platform Support - The project will only run on Windows.
* Menu Navigation - The menu can only be navigated with keyboard inputs. I would like the option to control menus with a mouse and keyboard
* Lack of Stages - I tried in [cycle 9](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9.md#challenges) to allow for multiple stages, but I couldn't due to performance issues. This is no longer an issue with DirectX.
* No Online Support - The game lacks online multiplayer which means people have to be using the same machine or using external tools like [Parsec ](https://parsec.app/)to play together
* Graphics - While the graphics are unique, a lack of sprites and animations resulted in reused assets. I could also utilise move's RGB values as I never used them after adding them in [cycle 7](../design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7.md)

Users also reported limitations with the project when I asked how gameplay could be improved

* "The graphics could be upgraded to tell the abilities apart better"
* "Make the attacks slightly more visible"
* "More colour variety"

This means users could want me to improve the sprites. This would be surprising as multiple people who responded to the form gave me either drew the sprites or gave me the idea for the character. I think the more likely situation is that add back the old DrawRect function for moves and use the RGB values for moves.

* "Perhaps by adding more characters to add even more options for the player. Also the potential to add cosmetic items to your player before you fight could be fun."

Adding more characters or cosmetics would require more sprites, which I would have to either request from friends or make.

* "More stages in the background would be nice"

This means players want the same improvements that I'm planning to add. This reinforces the idea that adding them would improve the game.

* "Add power ups."

Power ups would be interesting as they would create a similar feel to items in [Super Smash Bros Ultimate](../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#super-smash-bros-ultimate) or [Outfoxies](../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#the-outfoxies). This creates more unique interactions and makes the game feel fresh, especially if random items spawn randomly (however this would risk randomness affecting the result of a match).

* "Reduce the game complexity"

I obtained this response because I gave the game to someone who doesn't play many video games. While I could ignore responses like these as they're not from my target demographic, I could add an easier mode. This would include fewer attacks, fewer controls and slower gameplay.&#x20;

This would increase the target demographic for my game as more people would be able to understand it. I could also add a tutorial to explain to players what each input does in more detail.

* "heavier feeling characters"
* "faster movement/attacks"

I've realised the reason the game feels so slow is because of the hit stun. Hit stun slows down the game's pace and throws off timing for players. This makes the game feel heavy. I could remove it entirely to make the game smoother.

## Maintenance

I could maintain this project by expanding on the limitations to improve it or by improving current aspects by doing things such as adding more characters or rebalancing current characters.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

There was only one bug reported by users.

* "In the pause screen, not all controls were displayed, only 4 of them")&#x20;

This only occurs in the full screen mode, meaning it can be fixed by improving it. In addition to this, when playing in full screen mode, the window doesn't go to the very right side of the screen or hide the Windows toolbar. I could fix this by changing the window style to "WS\_VISIBLE | WS\_POPUP" when I make it fullscreen and "WS\_VISIBLE | WS\_OVERLAPPEDWINDOW" on the windowed mode.

However, I found some bugs while playing the game myself.

* If you're not tabbed into the window and perform keyboard inputs, the game will still register the inputs.&#x20;

I could fix this by replacing "GetKeyState" with "gfx->ifFocus() && GetKeyState".

* If you have 5 projectiles out at one point and try to use a move, it won't activate.&#x20;

As this issue almost exclusively happens with special moves, I could fix this by making it so that if you have 4 active moves that aren't attached to the player, you can only use a special move if it's up special.

* If you lure the AI to the edge of the stage and get it to use a special move, it will fall off the stage.&#x20;

To fix this, I could make it so that the AI can't use special moves if they're 200 pixels away from the edges of the stage or closer. I did the same thing with dodges. Also, the AI could use more powerful moves when the opponent is at a higher percent to make them more challenging to beat.

* Most importantly, if Troll Face uses their side special near the edge of the stage on top of the opponent, they will land a hit (which isn't meant to happen) and then keep using the move until they fall off the stage.&#x20;

I could stop them from continuing to use the move if I remove hit stun, but I could also change how moves work to remove the initial hit.

I also wanted to see if I could use the old version of DrawRect and I quickly found that I could use FillRect. This means I can use FillRect for moves.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* Lack of stages - I've already shown in [cycle 9](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9.md#challenges) that I can add a stage selection so I can make new backgrounds and add them.
* Story - I would like to add a backstory to all of my characters in the form of a brief description of them when you select them
* Menu Navigation - As I'm now using the DirectX framework, I can add mouse functionality
* Easy Mode - I could add a simplified mode with only one light and one heavy attack per character to allow anyone to enjoy it. I could also add a tutorial that explains player inputs.
* Graphics - I would have to develop more sprites or animations (as the DirectX framework allows me to use animations). I would however struggle to get more sprites, so I might keep the game how it is.&#x20;
* Power Ups - As this is a feature that people wanted that would improve the game's replayability, adding them would be vital, but incredibly time consuming to implement.
* Platform support - I could make a version for Mac and Linux or I could make a version in Kaboom so it works on all browsers, but I would need to keep all factors of the game consistent despite using multiple different languages.
* No online support - This would be challenging to connect a local app to an external server, especially if I make multiple versions of the game for compatibility. There also needs to be practically no lag as platform fighters are precise. This however has been accomplished in Rivals of Aether so is possible.

### Code

I implemented some of these changes into a new version of the game and uploaded the code and releases to the same GitHub.

{% embed url="https://github.com/17b23802/Blanchard-Jamie-Project-Result" %}
