# 1.4b Computational Methods

<details>

<summary>Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation</summary>

Thinking abstractly is important because it removes unnecessary details from problems, making code more streamlined. This can also make the program run better and make code easier to edit. I can accomplish this by

* Making the stage a single entity and sending all functions that interact with it directly to that entity
* Making all moves run through the same function with different parameters for stun and damage
* Making each sprite a single file
* Making the AI's inputs go through the same function as the player's inputs would have done
* Keeping the background simple with a single colour that it doesn't share with any stage or player assets
* Using simple platformer mechanics for jumping and moving
* Adding a menu where the player can see the controls and change the characters

</details>

<details>

<summary>Thinking Ahead</summary>

This allows me to consider the potential inputs and outputs to understand the interactions in the game. It allows me to know where to go from the starting steps to developing into a full game. To do this effectively I can start by implementing things that will stay constant throughout the development, like the stage and controls, and adapt the rest to it.

* I can make one function for moves that will allow for all conditions a move can have (stun, throws etc)
* I can make all the controls in a separate function for player input so I can add an AI later
* I can start by making all the .cpp and .h files to see what I have to make
* I can start with test sprites to see how actual sprites will eventually interact with the game

</details>

<details>

<summary>Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition</summary>

This is the process of breaking down code into sub functions to make it easier to understand and edit, as well as allowing me to use the sub functions multiple times. This allows me to find errors more easily and easily change functions. I plan to break my code up by doing thing like&#x20;

* Using the same function for damage
* Breaking up players into a function that passes in inputs
* Having separate functions for the character select, starting the game and playing the game
* Separating update model and draw model
* Having a separate function for being in the air or on the ground

</details>

<details>

<summary>Thinking Logically</summary>

Thinking logically is knowing what conditions at a given point affect the outcome of an action. This is important because it allows you to have an understanding of the decisions in the game and the interaction between different game states.

* When the user presses a key, a decision needs to be made about what will happen, eg move the player right.
* The program needs to monitor all hitboxes, to see if a character falls off the stage or gets hit by a move
* The AI needs to adapt to the stage positioning and opponent's positioning, as well as its own moves potential
* The program needs to decide what game state it's in, such as in battle, paused, end screen or character selection

</details>

<details>

<summary>Thinking Concurrently</summary>

Thinking concurrently is about determining which parts of a problem can be executed simultaneously. Games give the illusion of running concurrently as many processes are run every frame. This is important as it allows you to decide which processes need to be calculated every frame in a game to give the illusion of concurrency. Features that need to be executed simultaneously include:\
\
Thinking concurrently is about solving multiple problems at the same time. This provides an illusion that the game is running concurrently by executing multiple processes on every frame. This allows you to decide which processes need to be run every frame, as well as balancing the speed every aspect of the game works at. This can be done with processes like&#x20;

* Updating both players' positions
* Deciding if a player hit a move
* Updating moves
* Updating lag or stun
* Redrawing a player or move
* Drawing the UI

</details>
