# 2.2.4 Cycle 4

## Design

### Objectives

I plan to add moves that take up a specific space, detect if they collide with players, deal a set amount of knockback and stun. I can do this by making a template for moves and have all moves call it with specific parameters. To do this I have to make a lives system to decide what counts as off the map, and add a hurt animation for when a character is in stun

* [x] Add a lives system
* [x] Allow players to input attack inputs
* [x] Restrict player movement when using a move
* [x] Give players move durations
* [x] Give moves move durations
* [x] Draw the move
* [x] Add start up frames and ending frames
* [x] Add player collision
* [x] Add stun
* [x] Add damage
* [x] Make damage reset on death and game reset
* [x] Add the ability for the rectangle to move with the player
* [x] Add the ability for the rectangle to move independantly of the player

### Usability Features

* Colour contrast - I reworked the colours so that I can customise it more, so I need to continue to make the colours contrasting each other

### Key Variables

| Variable name | Use                                                                           |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| playerPercent | The percent of a player, used in increasing the knockback of scalar knockback |
| moveDuration  | The time a player is stunned because they're using a move                     |
| stun          | The time a player is unable to move due to being hit by a move                |

### Pseudocode

```
// Some code
```

## Development

### Outcome

While testing I found that you could still clip through the bottom corners of the stage so I fixed the stage collision. On top of this I made it so that if you jump while moving into the stage, you don't jump as soon as you become level with the stage.\
I implemented the lives system followed by the ability for the game to detect light, heavy and special inputs\
I added the ability for light attacks to create a rectangle that's tied to the player\
I gave this rectangle the duration, damage, knockback and hit detection necessary\
I added the ability for players to get knocked back and take damage from moves

### Challenges

Game.cpp can talk to Player1 and Player2, but not their moves. Player1 can talk to its 5 moves, but not player 2's. The moves can't talk to anything else. This means to detect Player2's location and the move's location you need a function that passes forward Player2's location from game.cpp to Player1, where Player1 then calls a function in Move that passes forwards Player2's location. This function then returns a boolean value for if the move is hitting Player2 to Player1. Player1 then returns the same boolean value to game.cpp. This also means for all values like damage, I had to make a function in Player1 that returns the move's damage value.

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions | What I expect | What actually happens | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------------- | --------- |
| 1    |              |               |                       | Pass      |
